GWEN IFILL: Good evening. I'm Gw
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I'm Judy Wood
GWEN IFILL: On the "NewsHour" tothe budget divide. A possible tw
is reached by congressional leadWhite House.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Also ahead this Tinvestigation into President Bas
Syria, from a newly developed rewar-torn streets.
GWEN IFILL: And how a dying hillis using engineering and tourism
resurgence.
TONY HEYWOOD, Architect: The aredepressed, and families were lea
the ones that stayed are like meThey liked it here and they didn
leave.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: The U.S. Navy tesin part of the South China Sea,
off verbal combat with China. Andestroyer sailed within 12 nauti
of a Chinese-built island in dis
It's part of the Spratly Islandsand the Philippines also have cl
rejects those claims, and it routhe U.S. action.
LU KANG, Chinese Foreign Ministr(through translator): If any cou
illusions about carrying out anyinterfere in or obstruct China's
and fair activities on our territhose countries to abandon these
It may make China come to the inthat maybe we do have to strengt
the building up of our capacitie
JUDY WOODRUFF: In Washington, thsaid the U.S. has a right to fre
in the area.
The Defense Department, meanwhilNorthrop Grumman its biggest con
than a decade for the next generbomber. The announcement late to
a potential 100 stealth bombers,of up to $80 billion.
GWEN IFILL: Pentagon leaders calfor stepping up the campaign aga
State forces. At a Senate hearinof new moves in the Middle East
both air and ground components.
Defense Secretary Ashton Carter this morning the shift in strate
a beefed-up U.S. air campaign an"Frontline" combat support.
ASHTON CARTER, U.S. Defense Secrwon't hold back from supporting
in opportunistic attacks againstconducting such missions directl
by strikes from the air or directhe ground.
GWEN IFILL: The new chair of theof Staff, Marine General Joseph
it may be time to put American con the ground.
GEN. JOSEPH DUNFORD, Joint ChiefChairman: If it had operational
impact and we could reinforce suwould be the basic framework wit
I would make a recommendation foforces to be co-located with Ira
GWEN IFILL: The two leaders saidto target two key locations, Raq
State's self-declared capital inthe militant stronghold Ramadi,
of Anbar province in Western Ira
The new approach comes as the Obdeals with the failures so far o
against ISIL. In particular, thehad hoped to train 5,400 moderat
in Syria, but actually fielded odozen. The focus now is on suppo
militias and others and on rampi
Carter said that effort will intRussia's new air campaign in sup
President Assad.
ASHTON CARTER: We are not cooperRussia and we're not letting Rus
the pace or scope of our campaigISIL in Iraq and Syria.
SEN. LINDSEY GRAHAM (R-SC), PresThe strategy has completely fall
GWEN IFILL: But several Republicincluding presidential hopeful L
argued it's too little, too late
SEN. LINDSEY GRAHAM: So, what yogentlemen, along with the presid
have turned Syria over to RussiaThis is a sad day for America, a
will pay hell for this, because are not going to accept this. Th
Syria are not going to accept tha half-assed strategy at best.
GWEN IFILL: Any changes in U.S. need President Obama's formal ap
are that could come as early as
Separately, Russia announced it Iran to join international talks
future. They are scheduled in Vithis week.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The earthquake deAfghanistan and Pakistan climbed
nearly 380. The quake was centerthe Hindu Kush mountain range ne
city of Fayzabad. Rescuers strugto reach the hardest-hit areas,
went out on foot to assess damagPakistani helicopters ferried ou
the injured, but supply drops mafor some days.
GWEN IFILL: Back in this countryhas opened a civil rights invest
a sheriff's deputy who tossed a her desk at a South Carolina hig
Officials say the girl disruptedrefused an order to leave.
With that, the white deputy is sthe black teen and dragging her
student recorded the scene. The nationwide condemnation today, a
of the local school district truit.
JAMES MANNING, Richland School DWhat happened yesterday, what we
on that shamefully shocking videunforgivable and inconsistent wi
that this district stands for, wfor and what we aspire to be.
GWEN IFILL: Black parents in thesaid there's a long history of d
The girl has been charged with dschool and released to her famil
has been placed on leave.
JUDY WOODRUFF: President Obama oof the police today, as they fac
scrutiny over their treatment ofHe spoke to a national meeting o
police in Chicago and said he reto divide officers from their co
BARACK OBAMA, President of the UToo often, law enforcement gets
for the broader failures of socicriminal justice system.
(APPLAUSE)
BARACK OBAMA: And I know you do with distinction no matter the c
you face. That's part of wearingBut we can't expect you to conta
problems that the rest of us areto face or do anything about.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The president spoJustice Department reported that
on police held steady between 19at about 200 a year. There have
about whether such attacks are nrise.
GWEN IFILL: CIA Director John Brhe was outraged when he learned
e-mail account had been hacked. hacking emerged last week.
I asked Brennan about it today aco-sponsored by George Washingto
and the CIA.
JOHN BRENNAN, CIA Director: I ceconcerned about what people migh
with that information. I was alsat how some of the media handled
of some of the reporting was thasomething inappropriate or wrong
of my security responsibilities,certainly not the case.
GWEN IFILL: The hacked data inclcontact list and his wife's Soci
number.
JUDY WOODRUFF: For Americans undof 75, there's good news today a
and death. The American Cancer Sthat the death rate in that age
75, from all causes fell more thbetween 1969 and 2013.
The research found deaths from sby 77 percent during that period
time, heart disease fatalities w70 percent. The study also said
from unintended injury fell by 4
GWEN IFILL: On Wall Street, stocafter crude oil hit two-month lo
Jones industrial average lost mopoints to close at 17580. The Na
four points, and the S&P 500 sli
JUDY WOODRUFF: And Abby Wambach,leading goal scorer in internati
history, is retiring. Wambach andecision today, after President
the U.S. women's team at the Whiwinning the women's World Cup in
final game will be December 16.
GWEN IFILL: Still to come on thea budget deal to avert a fiscal
realities clash in Syria, insideand resorts; Ted Koppel warns of
on the electrical grid, and much
JUDY WOODRUFF: The
gridlock in Washington seems to this week. Deals are being made,
being cast, and the speaker of ttrying to clear the deck for his
waiting in the wings.
Political director Lisa Desjardi
REP. JOHN BOEHNER (R-OH), SpeakeHaving listened to our members a
to the American people, we have
LISA DESJARDINS: The outgoing spHouse, John Boehner, used one of
news conferences to make the ann
REP. JOHN BOEHNER: The agreementby any means. But the alternativ
debt ceiling increase, without asupport for our troops and witho
reforms.
LISA DESJARDINS: The deal would by $80 billion over the next two
both defense and domestic prograalso lift the federal debt ceili
the spring of 2017.
Within the divided House Republithe tentative agreement drew bac
Boehner supporters.
REP. TOM COLE (R), Oklahoma: Likthings, you wish you were negoti
yourselves, but you're not. So, will pass. And I think it ought
again, fair enough to be criticaI think, if you're going to do t
to lay out what you would do.
REP. STEVE RUSSELL (R), Oklahomaby the fact that we're doing som
looks like a budget with the pre
LISA DESJARDINS: But the most coRepublicans, members of the Free
who helped drive Boehner to retion board.
REP. MO BROOKS (R), Alabama: I wvoting for it, because, in my vi
irresponsible.
REP. JOHN FLEMING (R), Louisianaa very complex deal. This thing
taken weeks, probably months, toand it's dropped on us in less t
REP. THOMAS MASSIE (R), Kentuckyour problem with Speaker Boehner
speaker of the United States, noof the House of Representatives.
LISA DESJARDINS: Wisconsin RepubRyan, the man likely to become s
the closed-door process of gettistinks, and he declined to say h
Boehner said he agrees about thebut he argued the deal deserves
REP. JOHN BOEHNER: When you haveagreement in a town that is not
a lot of bipartisanship, you're bricks flying from those that do
fact that there's a bipartisan a
LISA DESJARDINS: This afternoon,on both sides added their suppor
SEN. HARRY REID (D-NV), Minorityagreement is a victory over the
extreme voices in the Republicanit into law would be a victory f
sense and for middle class.
SEN. MITCH MCCONNELL (R-KY), MajI am hopeful and optimistic that
will come over to the Senate, andoes, we will take it up.
LISA DESJARDINS: The House couldwith a goal of final congression
by next week's debt ceiling dead
JUDY WOODRUFF: Later, President word of the agreement, and urged
Lisa joins us now from Capitol Hlatest.
So, Lisa, hello.
It is not quite a done deal, butthe Democrats are celebrating al
LISA DESJARDINS: Yes, Democrats celebrating over in the Senate.
Some of the top Senate Democratswith reporters in the last two h
they feel like this is an incredThis is a done deal in terms of
final offer from leaders in bothand the Senate, Judy. But, of co
voting matters here.
And I have to tell you, Judy, tolooks like this deal does have v
the House and the Senate largelythose Democrats, as you were say
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now, Lisa, what where? What was the politics? We
both sides had to do some tradin
LISA DESJARDINS: That's right.
There were immense politics invoof course, and it depends on who
to. Everyone is going to claim oanother. But if you take a step
got something they wanted very mis a rollback of some steep spen
that were going to go in place fnon-defense programs last year.
Republicans basically got the sathe defense programs that they l
has said it was really going to those cuts called sequester next
two sides easily divided how thethose cuts. Now, that's somethin
Republicans say wasn't fair becamore votes, they wanted to only
But, in the end, Democrats were away with some money for some ot
programs. Now, this bill is fullaspects as well. One other thing
point out, Judy, there are changof it is paid by for changes in
Care Act, Obamacare.
For example, a requirement on lathat would automatically enroll
in health care, that would be frThat's a win for Republicans. So
have to look through this deal. lot for everyone here.
One thing that Republicans didn'is any savings on the debt. This
ways will increase the deficit, on how you look at it. It's a bi
gimmick, some people say.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now, what about tentitlement programs, Medicare,
Are they affected by this?
LISA DESJARDINS: They are. Therenews here.
Some Medicare recipients were faserious increase in premiums nex
is now going to be frozen and spso that those premiums will go u
years, rather than next year. Sowas facing perhaps the biggest c
entitlement program next year. Iinsurance was facing a cut in be
was running out of money next ye
Now that program will gain anothof life, go through 2022 in this
JUDY WOODRUFF: Lisa, is Speaker to push this through even withou
Republicans, in other words, witof Democrats in the House?
LISA DESJARDINS: I think that's important things here. That migh
important thing, that what happeSpeaker Boehner and also Majorit
the Senate Mitch McConnell got ttheir Democratic counterparts an
they were going to govern, they to get past these crises, even i
a combination of Democratic votethe House, maybe more Democratic
Republican votes.
Yes, Speaker Boehner is ready tobasically with Democratic votes.
an amazing thing to think about.and two days ago, Judy, we were
Speaker Boehner having just resiHouse in disarray.
But Speaker Boehner also I thinkto get through these crises and
It was basically the four leaderand Republican, against the Hous
and the leaders showing this is to govern.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And on so many vohe wouldn't do it with Democrats
what it would take.
LISA DESJARDINS: But it will takand he's doing it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Lisa Desjardins athank you.
LISA DESJARDINS: My pleasure.
GWEN IFILL: Now to a look insideanything we have seen before.
Frontline's Martin Smith visitedcountry this summer, after secur
government visa to report on thewitnessed evidence of a country
also captured an alternate view for tonight's documentary, "Insi
Syria."
In the following excerpt, Smith resort development with Syria's
located just outside the bombed
MARTIN SMITH: During my visit tomeet the man in charge of the ca
minister of tourism, Bishr Yazig
How do you do?
BISHR YAZIGI, Syrian Minister ofHi. How are you? Fine?
MARTIN SMITH: I'm good.
BISHR YAZIGI: Nice to meet you.
(CROSSTALK)
MARTIN SMITH: Nice to meet you. to be here.
BISHR YAZIGI: How do you see DamHoms?
MARTIN SMITH: The minister is stabout his mission.
BISHR YAZIGI: Yesterday, there win the Wadi area. It was amazing
And you can see how the Syrian pwithout any makeup.
MARTIN SMITH: Right.
The minister is here in Homs to project. So, we follow him and t
through the bombed-out remains oHoms to this place five miles ea
city.
The resort isn't fully open yet,pool and public areas. Everyone
The minister's visit attracts 10and the resort is already taking
MAN (through translator): You ha
MAN (through translator): Yes, t
MAN (through translator): Wow.
MARTIN SMITH: The official openia month away.
MAN: Maybe it's better to take athe other side.
MARTIN SMITH: Just 10 miles fromthe animals look as stunned as I
We drive back to the reality of city is going to need a lot more
resort. I talk to some high schowho make that clear. Syria has l
them. They face military conscrithey finish school or a car bomb
What do you worry about?
STUDENT: I worry about my friendabout explosions that happen in
There's so many.
MARTIN SMITH: Who is doing the e
STUDENT: Terrorists.
MARTIN SMITH: Terrorists. And whfrom? What group?
STUDENT: No one knows that. TheyFree Syrian Army or Nusra.
STUDENT: The terrorists have desfuture. I don't have any future
They destroyed our life. We werebecause we live in a safe place.
We're afraid of every car could
MARTIN SMITH: Are we safe here?
STUDENT: No place in Syria is sabecause the American government
the rebels long-range rockets. Tanyplace in Syria. We're not saf
GWEN IFILL: Joining me to talk aand tonight's documentary is "Fr
Martin Smith.
Martin, you're putting the face that most of us never get to see
of all, the practicality of thisyou get in?
MARTIN SMITH: Well, I had workedthan a year, trying various aven
in. Some reporters can get in anshort-term visas, maybe one week
couple of days' extension, but Itime if I was going to put toget
on this.
And then I got a phone call. Somme access to a trove of footage
young journalist, maybe more thaover the last four-and-a-half ye
asked if I was interested in looI said, sure, but I would like t
and look at it. And then the promore ambitious after that. I sta
we planned travel together, and to make this trip.
And one of the things about the have a time limit. I stayed a fu
could have stayed longer, and wethe usual minder from the minist
from the foreign media departmenof journalists are saddled with.
GWEN IFILL: Well, I want to ask the surprises, and the surprises
be whether anybody would feel frto you, a Western journalist, an
criticize Assad.
MARTIN SMITH: No.
I mean, that is a red line for tare not going to criticize Assad
because they risk a beating or wgenerally will say very kind thi
patriotic things about Assad. Buthings you learn over time is th
listen to people and you ask theoften, they will just go on and
the Syrian nation, the Syrian st
What they are most concerned aboAssad and his future. They're co
their future. They're concerned services that the state provides
it's water, electricity, sewer, They saw what happened in Iraq.
happened in Libya when those dicdeposed. They don't want that to
them.
GWEN IFILL: Did you see any signof what we're now -- what now lo
more every day like a proxy war up in Syria involving Moscow and
MARTIN SMITH: Well, it's been a for some time.
The Russians have been in there,have been in there, the Chinese
in there on the side. Of course,referring to the fact that the R
directly involved in running airand launching missiles into Syri
There was -- while we were there-- we saw there were Russian off
central market. I didn't know whdoing there. There was the activ
Alawite heartland around LatakiaMediterranean of -- expansion of
But it didn't happen until afterthe Russians directly entered th
of course, last week, Assad travto strategize with Putin.
GWEN IFILL: So how do the peoplespoke to view the U.S. involveme
against the Islamic State?
MARTIN SMITH: It's interesting.
A number of people pulled me asiwould say to me, who do you thin
ISIS? And I would say, well, thaquestion. I know their roots. An
say, well, it's the U.S. And I wwell, how do you -- how do you m
And they would say, well, if youHumvees, their vehicles, their w
ammunition, it all comes from thso the United States is supporti
And I said, well, no, the Unitedwere stolen from Mosul when they
Mosul in Northern Iraq.
But their idea of the United Stadistrustful. And, you know, this
of the world where conspiracies of education, in many cases, lea
of wild conspiracy theories. So belief -- and they also conflate
enemies.
So, the fact that the United StaWestern-backed, you know, rebels
moderate rebels, and you have ISother end of the spectrum, they
that together and they call everthe schoolchildren in the clip t
termed them, terrorists. They'rein their view.
GWEN IFILL: You spent more time there than most of us get to, an
away with, I'm sure, a whole lotimages, as we just saw outside o
What -- is it possible for you tdown to the single most kind of
that you had while you were ther
MARTIN SMITH: There were a numbeI mean, the new resort being ope
few miles from the absolutely deof Homs city, the fact that whil
raining mortars on Damascus and was responding with a bombing ca
one of the suburbs, I was invitethe Syrian National Symphony, wh
a beautiful rendition of one of dances.
I mean, there was a beach resortAt the same time, I met people w
from the war, whose emotion was a lot of women who were extremel
what they are facing. So, it wasof both.
GWEN IFILL: Martin Smith, we wiltonight on most PBS stations for
Syria" on "Frontline."
Thank you for giving us a previe
MARTIN SMITH: Gwen, thank you ve
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour": theof dementia; engineering jump-st
Italian town; and a cyber-attackleave millions without electrici
investigates in "Lights Out."
But, first, the Dalai Lama was sarrive in the U.S. yesterday. He
doctors at the Mayo Clinic advisrest.
But advice flows both ways in thbetween the Buddhist leader and
physician.
Special correspondent Fred de Saon how the Dalai Lama inspired a
native to move halfway across thbring compassion back into a med
system dominated by technology.
The report is part of Fred's ongAgents for Change.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: Sixty-eight-native Barry Kerzin began his ca
professor of family medicine at of Washington. He never dreamed
to a pro bono house calls thousaaway in Tibetan.
DR. BARRY KERZIN, Scholar: I keemyself, Fred. I don't know.
(LAUGHTER)
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: He first arrafter hearing that the Dalai Lam
a Western physician to train tradoctors in modern research metho
DR. BARRY KERZIN, Scholar: We distudy. And we used that pedagogi
the local Tibetan medicine doctodo the research.
And then I got more involved witI had already been very interest
more involved with meditation anI ended up extending my stay. An
again and again and here I am 27
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: He came to Ia life punctuated by pain and lo
a near fatal brain abscess that surgery and left a permanent lum
His mother died young, and a fewso did his wife, only in her mid
from cancer.
Buddhism became a sanctuary undeof the Dalai Lama, who told him
to the world.
DR. BARRY KERZIN: He always encoto keep my credentials and to co
medicine. Don't just do the wisdthe love and the compassion. In
50/50. Those were his words.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: Scholarship led to his ordination as a monk,
has been a path to inner peace aAnd that's translated into empat
DR. BARRY KERZIN: It's slowly moto be more compassionate, to be
I don't get angry very much anymto be highly competitive. I'm st
competitive, but it's more now pat the expense of somebody else.
a combination of meditation and Holiness calls, emotional hygien
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: Kerzin, who as a personal physician to the D
has taken the spiritual leader'semotional hygiene and compassion
practitioners around the world.
HIS HOLINESS THE DALAI LAMA, Bud(through translator): He is my m
Go to Japan, go to Mongolia.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: And full cir
DR. BARRY KERZIN: It's lovely to
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: A few years lecture at a top U.S. medical sc
have been given by a man who lefmedicine and many stunned collea
very different world, where he da house, car or refrigerator.
DR. BARRY KERZIN: I think initiaI went off the deep end. What ar
living in India? Come on. You knyou stay healthy? Why don't you
And you could have a very good lhave a very good academic life i
You could have a very comfortabllife. It's ridiculous what you'r
So let's meditate, OK?
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: But on this were listening, even meditating,
Kerzin says meditation helps onethe now, the present. You tune o
and all your regrets, tune out pworry about the future. It's tak
he says, but gotten results, scimeasured results.
DR. BARRY KERZIN: This is in MadUniversity of Wisconsin, and the
my brain.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: Kerzin has ba series of studies into the imp
on the brain.
DR. BARRY KERZIN: What they founin the prefrontal cortex. This a
the executive function area, theit helps with things like planni
imagination, empathy, to feel asperson is feeling. So these area
both anatomically and functionalmeditators.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: Kerzin's hossaid there's an epidemic of diss
among American doctors today, whmakes them more receptive to a m
Kerzin's.
DR. ABRAHAM VERGHESE, Stanford UFifty percent of them, they say
are unhappy. And that tells you an individual problem. This is a
problem.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: Dr. Abraham well-known author and professor
says technology, for all its bendoctors little time for the comp
drew most of them to medicine.
DR. ABRAHAM VERGHESE: There was paper from the "Journal of Emerg
titled "4,000 Clicks," suggestinemergency medicine physician doe
a day and spends the great majortime on the computer, very littl
of the time actually with patienstudies that are coming out sugg
same about residents and medicaland physicians in other specialt
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: Kerzin says make compassion as integral to m
as physiology or biochemistry, mbetween scientists and Buddhist
a reconciliation of very differeon life that he said he's made i
DR. BARRY KERZIN: I used to say hats. So, sometimes, this is the
this is the Buddhist hat. But I that any more.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO: Today, he saone scientist monk hat.
For the "PBS NewsHour," this is Lazaro in Dharmsala, India.
GWEN IFILL: Now: A new study sposoaring financial and emotional
many families are coping with frand Alzheimer's disease.
The cost of caregiving for thoseis now some of the highest of an
William Brangham has the story
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Researchers athave just published a study show
for patients with dementia and Adisease is far more expensive th
for those with illnesses like cadisease.
According to the study, which lowithin the last five years of th
the total cost of caring for somdementia costs 57 percent more t
with other illnesses. And dementand their families also pay 81 p
in out-of-pocket expenses than o
This year alone, dementia will c$226 billion.
Joining me now is Dr. Diane MeieIcahn School of Medicine at Moun
wasn't an author of this particubut she's one of the nation's le
care for the elderly.
So, Dr. Meier, what is it that mout at you about this study?
DR. DIANE MEIER, Icahn School ofMount Sinai Hospital: I think wh
out at me, and I hope to the genabout this study, is the realiza
so much of health care is not coor by regular insurance, and tha
deal of the needs of older adulthelp during the day, particularl
have memory problems, come rightpockets of the patient and the f
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: So, is that whhuge disparity, why people who a
for people with dementia are paymore of their own money to care
loved ones?
DR. DIANE MEIER: That is the rea
People with dementia, that diseaby a progressive loss of ability
of yourself, to dress yourself, feed yourself, to have judgment
And what that means is that you a dementia patient alone. So, fa
that either by having someone ingive up their other responsibili
up their work in order to be witwho has dementia, or by paying o
to pay someone, an aide or a combe with their loved one with dem
Either way, there's a huge cost that is not covered by Medicare.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: This study alsthat the costs fall disproportio
blacks and single people and peoeducation. Is that just a functi
relative financial situation?
DR. DIANE MEIER: Mostly, it's a their relative financial situati
There are also some cultural difwillingness to take care of vuln
ones. Some cultures are much morto providing family-level care a
care to loved ones who are ill othan others, and certainly the A
community has a very strong histcare of their own.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: You have obvioa good deal of your own career c
people at the end of their livesheard stories like this from you
and from their families that thebeen onerous?
DR. DIANE MEIER: I have had manywho bankrupted their -- for exam
parents' savings, completely spetheir parents' savings, and then
spending their own savings.
Their child's college savings acexample, the money they had been
a mortgage had to be spent for ttheir parent who had Alzheimer's
And I remember one family in parone of the daughters had the res
for caring for the mom who had Adisease, and she provided wonder
her mother for more than 15 year
And when her mother finally diedhad no job, no visible means of
skills, and was basically put onrolls because she had no income
on, because she had devoted mostlife to the care of her mother.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Yes, it's awfu
So, put your policy-making hat owere in the policy-making busine
we address this? What would you
DR. DIANE MEIER: Well, when Mediwere written, it said that Medic
only pay for what is -- quote --necessary."
And at that time, that was thouglike surgery or a hip replacemen
for a heart attack or visiting athere wasn't a recognition at th
it hadn't yet happened, that oldto be very different in our era
back in the 1960s.
Old age in our era is chronic digoes on for many, many years, so
than decades, and it's characterneeding help to get through the
doesn't pay for that. Yet that ineed of older adults and their f
our society.
So, I think we need to rethink hfor health care and pay for heal
a manner that actually meets peo
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: This study obvjust at financial costs, but, ob
for someone with dementia comes emotional cost as well. I mean,
even factored into this study.
DR. DIANE MEIER: Correct.
Dementia is an extremely difficuserious illness. I think it is t
illness I have ever participatedfor, worse for the patient and f
for example, cancer or heart disof the other dreaded illnesses,
happens is the person's mind begwhile their body is still there.
So, there is this complicated sithe person still being in front
they're not inside anymore. And and the loss begins many, many y
the person's death. And I think not only for the person living w
loss, but also for the people whperson, is enormous.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: All right, Dr.of Mount Sinai Hospital, thank y
DR. DIANE MEIER: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Next: an Italian hovering between life and death,
being made to save it.
Jeffrey Brown traveled there as ongoing series Culture at Risk.
JEFFREY BROWN: Each morning, as on this medieval town seemingly
a fairy tale, the narrow lanes oBagnoregio are quiet. By the lat
there are just seven year-round and who knows how many cats.
By mid-morning, though, the scenbeautiful fall day has changed,
of tourists make the difficult hsteep footbridge. There's no car
here, drawn by the beauty and peof this place, where staircases
and windows lead into the clouds
In Italian, it's called la Cittathe Dying City, dying because it
crumbling before our eyes. But ngeological engineering and touri
this ancient city new life.
CLAUDIO MARGOTTINI, Italy GeologAfter we have a collapse, it tak
three, 10 years to have the nextin the same part of the cliff.
JEFFREY BROWN: Claudio MargottinGeological Survey, has worked in
several decades.
So, here's part of the problem, falling down?
CLAUDIO MARGOTTINI: Yes, exactlyexactly an example of what the p
in this town. So, we are just clcliff. And the cliff is falling
by piece, maybe five, six meters
JEFFREY BROWN: It's a problem thcenturies. The Etruscans chose t
build on in the sixth century B.its hilltop location. But this i
-- that's T-U-F-F -- common in tsuch as in the much better-known
built upon layers of volcanic rotuff that sit over a bedrock of
Daniele Baffo is a local enginee
DANIELE BAFFO, Engineer: It's lihave a masonry stone on the top
at the bottom. When the cream ishave not any kind of problem, be
dry cream is pretty, pretty hardit's rainy, and when there is wa
cream, the cream start to become
JEFFREY BROWN: It's been going oyears, helped by wind, rain, per
including a massive one in 1695,landslides.
CLAUDIO MARGOTTINI: And every ticoming here, you can see a diffe
different results, different pheyou didn't see before. So, it's
a movie. This is not a picture, That's why I consider it as leav
JEFFREY BROWN: Walls, gardens ansimply fallen off, including tha
most famous son, the 13th centurwho was born here.
American architect Tony Heywood in the 1960s with his wife, Astr
also an architect and a professoof Washington.
TONY HEYWOOD, Architect: The aredepressed, and families were lea
the ones that stayed are like meThey liked it here and they didn
leave.
JEFFREY BROWN: Zarina, who died credited with raising Civita's i
profile through her writings andincluding bring U.S. students he
That spurred renovations for manbuildings.
TONY HEYWOOD: Gradually, things at the end of the '70s and '80s.
finally got a tractor that wouldmaterials up.
JEFFREY BROWN: But the structuraremained. And, in 1997, the gove
reinforcing the foundation with essentially anchoring the unstab
to the town's solid base.
CLAUDIO MARGOTTINI: Creating a sstainless steel skeleton.
JEFFREY BROWN: But you're hopingwill hold this side of the town
CLAUDIO MARGOTTINI: Yes, this si
(CROSSTALK)
CLAUDIO MARGOTTINI: Exactly.
JEFFREY BROWN: You're smiling asYou're not sure.
(LAUGHTER)
TONY HEYWOOD: No.
JEFFREY BROWN: But you're hoping
TONY HEYWOOD: No. In the earth scan never say I'm sure about thi
know we are confident that the rquite good.
JEFFREY BROWN: The immediate thrthe bottom of the town, where a
occurred earlier this year. It fclosure of this restaurant, and
the footbridge that serves as thto the outside world.
Is there enough money to do the work you need?
DANIELE BAFFO: Not in this year,We need 10 million of euro, whic
small amount.
JEFFREY BROWN: And yet there's ain this dying town, including he
kitchen of the Alma Civita Restain 2011 by MAURIZIO ROCCHI, who
family history here back 400 yea
MAURIZIO ROCCHI, Alma Civita Resbeautiful to cook for people and
know and discover my family by t
JEFFREY BROWN: A 40-year-old nathome, with few opportunities the
person, Maurizio has come back aof its revival.
MAURIZIO ROCCHI: There's more wopeople to -- local people can co
work again, like years ago, you for the time, it's like to have
JEFFREY BROWN: New life that is at times. In the last five years
has risen from 40,000 a year to a glass of wine at his son's res
Rocchi told me he has mixed feel
SANDRO ROCCHI, Italy (through trFor me, it's too much. It was mu
it was more peaceful. You could other, be in the streets. Now th
JEFFREY BROWN: Still, father andon the new attention to save the
MAURIZIO ROCCHI: I want to belietown would survive forever. And
to invest all my life in this buon this project, because it's so
special to preserve to show to o
JEFFREY BROWN: For outsiders, ofof the thrill is to see Civita b
gone. For geologist Claudio Margthere's a very practical reason
CLAUDIO MARGOTTINI: This should a geotechnical laboratory for th
community to make tests, to maketo monitor and to consolidate Th
JEFFREY BROWN: A field laboratorthe geological turmoil below, bu
tolled at 7:00 and the streets eCivita di Bagnoregio returned to
its remaining residents cherish.
From Central Italy, I'm Jeffrey the "PBS NewsHour."
GWEN IFILL: Now: another additiobookshelf.
It's a warning about the vulnerathe country's power grid. And it
Ted Koppel, the veteran newsman anchor of ABC's "Nightline."
I talked with him recently about"Lights Out: A Cyberattack, A Na
Surviving the Aftermath."
Ted Koppel, welcome.
TED KOPPEL, Author, "Lights Out:A Nation Unprepared, Surviving t
Thank you.
GWEN IFILL: You have written a bthe next big threat. We always t
cyber-threats, about hacking. Buabout the electrical grid.
TED KOPPEL: We are accustomed tothat result in grand larceny. We
to cyber-attacks that amount to of intelligence information.
What we have never had is a cybeamounts to a weapon of mass dest
my point is that, if someone sucdown one of our power grids -- a
and the Chinese can do it and maand the North Koreans -- it woul
GWEN IFILL: Of all things for yoabout, what got your interest to
about this particular topic?
TED KOPPEL: The funny thing is, for about three years now, a num
top leaders, including the presipresident has twice mentioned it
State of the Union addresses, waa little paragraph, but warning
are those who are trying to get especially the power grid.
The secretary of defense at the Panetta, called the threat of a
on the power grid potentially a Harbor. That's pretty huge, and
paying any attention to it. And A, are these people just exagger
reasons I don't quite understandif they're not, what is the gove
to prepare for it and to preparefor it?
And my instinct told me that thegoing to be not much. Not much i
Nothing is closer to the truth.
GWEN IFILL: You have talked to sincluding the last four heads of
of Homeland Security and Departm
TED KOPPEL: Right.
GWEN IFILL: And did you get a setalking to them, that any one of
what to do if this were to happe
TED KOPPEL: Probably not.
Several of them know that the liit happening is great. When I sp
Napolitano just after she left aof homeland security -- and she
the job for five years -- I saiddo you think the chances are of
on the power grid? She said very80 to 90 percent.
It seems to me inevitable that wdeal with this. But maybe, becau
know what the answer is, we havebegun to do so.
GWEN IFILL: We have talked to Jewho currently runs Homeland Secu
trying to be more optimistic curin the job, but it didn't sound
conversation went well.
TED KOPPEL: It didn't go well, bthe one hand, he conceded that t
of a cyber-attack on the power gOn the other hand, when I said,
the plan? You're the secretary osecurity.
He sort of dismissed it and saidlong as you have a radio with ex
And I said, yes, but -- so you hand the power goes out and you t
on. What are you going to tell pdoesn't it seem a little strange
going to defer telling people whis until after the electricity g
communication is far more difficneeds to be?
GWEN IFILL: So it's easy to see a plan, but what would you say t
to be? Mass evacuations from somManhattan?
TED KOPPEL: Can't do it. Too manno place to put them.
The only thing -- and I don't waa position of even sounding as t
the answers. But I spent three cthe book dealing with the Mormon
reason I focused on the Mormons Mormons, after 200 years of bein
pillar to post, have learned howin difficult situations.
And they are probably about as was any large group in the countr
the one thing that the Mormons drecommend to Americans in genera
to have a three to six months' sand water.
GWEN IFILL: So, this is not a conecessarily, or a government res
We're not talking about state actime?
TED KOPPEL: It may be. It may bebut since what I'm finding is th
taken that responsibility very sor at least have not come up wit
yet, I'm saying to those people it -- and I fully appreciate tha
tens of millions of people in thwho can barely afford to put foo
every day, let alone get a supplto six months.
But if those who can afford it dif the government has a backlog
food, which lasts up to 25 yearssurvive something like this. If
that, there will be thousands of
GWEN IFILL: You say, quite provotoward the end of the book that
is our weapon of mass destructio
TED KOPPEL: In addition to all tthings that it does, it can be u
of mass destruction.
And the dangerous thing, Gwen, irequire a government to do it. I
require anyone with a ton of monSomeone sufficiently skilled in
using an individual laptop, can damage.
I have been told by the man who chief scientist for the NSA, the
Security Agency, that he now belthere are individual groups, and
a group like ISIS, for example, about $2 billion, that they coul
expertise and that the equipmentis available off the shelf. That
scary prospect.
GWEN IFILL: Are you worried thatbe dismissed as a doomsayer?
TED KOPPEL: I would be more worrafter the fact found out that I
what I had discovered, and that anything about it. I think that
greater -- the greater ill.
GWEN IFILL: Ted Koppel, the authOut: A Cyberattack, A Nation Unp
the Aftermath," thank you.
TED KOPPEL: Thank you, Gwen.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the "NewsHour"the World Health Organization's
on its guidelines to be careful and red meat, there's been a lot
on what kinds of meat carry a hirisk, and how much red meat is s
We turned to the research to anspressing questions. You can find
on our home page. And you can jofor a live Q&A session on Twitte
experts to answer more of your qThose details are also in our re
All that is on our Web site, PBS
GWEN IFILL: As it happens, I havquestions.
Tune in tonight as well. On "Chadirector David Holbrooke on "The
his biographical film on the lifAmbassador Richard Holbrooke.
And that's the "NewsHour" for to
On Wednesday, I talk to TreasuryJack Lew about the prospects for
deal that will avoid a governmen
I'm Gwen Ifill.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I'm Judy Wood
Join us online and again here toFor all of us at the "PBS NewsHo
you, and good night.